# CS_340_Client_Server_Development
Portfolio for SHNU's CS 340 - Client Server Development

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
- Writing maintable code consists of code that is modular, or easy to adapt to as needed. For example, with the CRUD module, each of the four functions are their own separate function and do not require each other to run the function. These functions maintain their atomicity, meaning they are in their most basic form. The code is readable, because each of the comments are self-descriptive so any future developer on this project would be able to understand each function's purpose and intent. Which leads to maintanable, because of its self-descriptive comments and that each of the attributes rely on variables and no hard-coding is needed or present within the code.
  
How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
- To complete a project of this nature, everything was completed in steps. First we tested a connection to a MongoDB database, and then we ran test scripts to see if we could pull correct data before we moved on to the front end of the application which is the dashboard. We essentially perform small vertical slides of minimal viability. Everything is performed in iterations and every aspect is built upon each other. First we built the backend connection as that is more important to function than designing the front end. Once the backend is working as intended and required by the client, then the focus can be on how the front end displays the results that is received from the backend.
  
What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
- Applying the same principles of the scientific method, we analyze problems, using computers as our tools. Problems could be a variety of issues, such as writing algoritms to prevent unauthorized users from gaining access to personal or protected data, designing applications to vendors in order to increase sales or expand market reach, or analyze obtained data in order to perform market research or improve innovation using user feedback.
